README.md, before:

<!--<p align="center"><img src="/assets/images/responsive.png" alt="drawing" width="800"/></p> -->

## Rent a House

Rent a house is a site for renting a house for vacation in Sweden.
A lot of people looking for nature and calmness, a break from the busy everyday life.
This is a opportunity to rent a house in a beautiful area.
It´s a practical and economical way for familys and larger groups to have an rental accomodation beside hotels.You come closer to the beach and have more like a home accomodation.
If you are a family or a group of friends with a car, this is a smoother opportunity with parking space, near beach and amenities that is describe on the location side.
This website is a great opportunity to find a house that fits the requirement and it is an opportunity for me as an owner to reach out to public to find this place for rent.
This is a house for short time rental from 1 night and up to 1 month.

![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/0e6bd5d2-a2e4-4ccb-bc3b-47c91f516d32)

<hr>

## Contents
Navigation Bar
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/91e4db69-c279-4f35-9b38-9aa22a760a17)
There is a navigation bar, visible on every page and you can in easy way keep track wich side you are heading for the moment with a frame mark of the sidename i the nav.bar
The menu is right under the heading name, so it is easy to find. The heading name is a link, so you can click on the header name, to go back to the first page.
You can also hoover over the menu and you see a hand mark.
The whole menu is displayed on smaller devices as well, since there is enough space to fit and it´s quicker to see the pages instead of two steps action. 



The background picture are taken at the location and will give you a feeling of the calm area you will stay in.

<hr> 

 **Home Page** - This part is to give a short description where the house is located and what you can expect from the rental object.
A picture of the rental house with a short description how many rooms and size it is.
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/ebdbc4f7-45b6-498d-8585-3415311c8e41)

<br> 

**Gallery Page** - 
Private pictures of the object, since pictures give you a feeling and say more than words.
<br> 

**Location Page** - Information of the area. It is a list with distance to some services and a map of location.
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/c50b602f-c7c9-46df-8ea8-8ee3d1ca7f26)

The map is a link to google map and you can change size of the map directly on the location page.
It is pinned with the exacly location of the residence.
The map is placed in the footer section, so it doesn´t disturbe the other content and are placed on the end of the page.

<br> 

**Rental Page** - Contact formular to sending a request of booking or more information.
Includes field for name and e-mail adress that is required and booking and message field for complement and are not required to fill in.
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/2850bbf9-d8cf-4ffb-b6ee-ada61cf1e761)

<hr> 

## The Footer

-The footer have links to social media.
- Contact in the end of the footer
- ![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/1c9272f2-9d76-472b-9ae6-46f5307a2361)

<hr> 

## Structure
I started with a skeleton, drawn in a word doc. 
I uploaded the doc in my repositories.
After I started build the webpages, I added a Gallery page to show more pictures.
Reason for that is to get more sense expressions. 
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/dcaab631-14c6-4152-ab8e-869727ee83b1)

<hr>

## Design

- Colours will give you a happy holiday feeling. I have 2 base colours, since there is some pictures that make the pages colourful.
  Background colour is a light ivory and I use a dark colour to make the text easily visible
  ![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/b3c7a8b1-21fc-4c36-b2bd-960a76d15b38)
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/710f392a-68c8-46e2-8adf-c8be0661cc7c)

- The font are choosen to get a casual design with a laidback and modern style.
Fonts are taken from Google Fonts
link: "https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Gluten:wght@100..900&display=swap"

## Future Features

**Social media links**
The thouht is to upload a video on youtube, but it hasn´t been done yet.
<br>
When I start the renting, Krokviken will have an own site on fb and instagram and the links will then go direct to those sites.
That can lead to more traffic and the object will get attention to more poople and more revenue for me.

**Gallery**
Upload more and updated pictures.

**Contact page**
1.I can also add a calender, where they can see the availible dates right away.
2. Next step is too book and get confirmed right away on the site.

<hr>
# Testing

## Manual Testing 
* I have tested with Safari on Ipad
* I have tested with Safari on Iphone
* I have tested all internal and external link
* I have checked the contact form and its fields/ submit
* I have tested with different browsers- Chrome, explorer, microsoft edge
* I have tested the responsive through the diffrent device sizes in Chrome inspections window
  
<hr>
# HTML validator
* I have checked the HTML codes through https://validator.w3.org

Index.html
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/e834cdba-4eb7-49ac-a0dc-78aa1690abef)
Gallery.html
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/eea6a882-849f-4a12-bb9d-6da2236f6229)
Location.html
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/1a1464ee-302b-49f2-b0fb-d11dad7f4cb5)
rental.html
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/1219b91b-081d-4cf9-bc09-850c31a55ca7)


## CSS Style
* I have checked the CSS style through   https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/fe281ea4-41c7-4875-bdcf-4baab3960264)

* I have checked the resposive through responsivedesignchecker.com


## Lighthouse
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/15a37b0a-8208-4f06-885a-cfdd75260863)

## Testing Respponsive
- https://responsivedesignchecker.com/<
  ![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/15d3e39b-5734-4fbc-896d-607b0e604d71)

- https://ui.dev/amiresponsive
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/821d6587-00b3-42f6-9d54-a70a9404fe0c)

<hr>

## Bugs
Through testing I found bugs that are resolves:
- Uploaded new Photo with smaller sizes
- The deployed site didn´t find links to img. I resolved it through tutorlesson of how to point at right map

<hr>

## Source references

The sources I have used in the project is:
- www.w3schools.com -More information about CSS styling Images and CSS codes
- Google map - link to my map
- Google Fonts - Find the font to use
- https://www.color-hex.com - tT find colours
-https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uu0lOX6Ot3s - more tips to create image gallery
-https://pixlr.com/se/express/ - to change picture to webformat
- Pictures- It is private pictures uploaded
- Header background is from https://pixabay.com/
- Inspiration of codes are taken from "love Running" project (CI tutoring)
- https://fontawesome.com/ - icons to the social media in the footer
- Tutor assistance -teach how to point link to right map in workspace

## Acknowledgments
I will say thank you to a few people, who helped me proceed my P1 :
- My mentor Gareth
- My student fellow Josefin YoshidaDahlqvist
- My studentfellows on slack with quick respons of all my questions
- Kristyna, who has a good pep attitude and helpful in a cleary way
  
## Mentions
Under the project I get the understanding how yo use commit messages and explain better than is dine in the project.
I getting more structur instead of commit for safetys sake and maybe it doesn´t have any valuable information.

Commit message:

correct som spelling in readme, add icon to head, made an 404.html

README.md, after:

<!--<p align="center"><img src="/assets/images/responsive.png" alt="drawing" width="800"/></p> -->

## Rent a House

Rent a house is a site for renting a house for vacation in Sweden.
A lot of people looking for nature and calmness, a break from the busy everyday life.
This is a opportunity to rent a house in a beautiful area.
It´s a practical and economical way for familys and larger groups to have an rental accomodation beside hotels.You come closer to the beach and have more like a home accomodation.
If you are a family or a group of friends with a car, this is a smoother opportunity with parking space, near beach and amenities that is describe on the location side.
This website is a great opportunity to find a house that fits the requirement and it is an opportunity for me as an owner to reach out to public to find this place for rent.
This is a house for short time rental from 1 night and up to 1 month.

![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/0e6bd5d2-a2e4-4ccb-bc3b-47c91f516d32)

<hr>

## Contents
Navigation Bar
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/91e4db69-c279-4f35-9b38-9aa22a760a17)
There is a navigation bar, visible on every page and you can in easy way keep track wich side you are heading for the moment with a frame mark of the sidename i the nav.bar
The menu is right under the heading name, so it is easy to find. The heading name is a link, so you can click on the header name, to go back to the first page.
You can also hoover over the menu and you see a hand mark.
The whole menu is displayed on smaller devices as well, since there is enough space to fit and it´s quicker to see the pages instead of two steps action. 

The background picture in the head is a sky and I think it fits on top of the page and give you a feeling of nature.

<hr> 

 **Home Page** - This part is to give a short description where the house is located and what you can expect from the rental object.
A picture of the rental house with a short description how many rooms and size it is.
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/ebdbc4f7-45b6-498d-8585-3415311c8e41)

<br> 

**Gallery Page** - 
Private pictures of the object, since pictures give you a feeling and say more than words.
<br> 

**Location Page** - Information of the area. It is a list with distance to some services and a map of location.
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/c50b602f-c7c9-46df-8ea8-8ee3d1ca7f26)

The map is a link to google map and you can change size of the map directly on the location page.
It is pinned with the exacly location of the residence.
The map is placed in the footer section, so it doesn´t disturbe the other content and are placed on the end of the page.

<br> 

**Rental Page** - Contact formular to sending a request of booking or more information.
Includes field for name and e-mail adress that is required and booking and message field for complement and are not required to fill in.
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/2850bbf9-d8cf-4ffb-b6ee-ada61cf1e761)

<hr> 

## The Footer

-The footer have links to social media.
- Contact in the end of the footer
- ![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/1c9272f2-9d76-472b-9ae6-46f5307a2361)

<hr> 

## Structure
I started with a skeleton, drawn in a word doc. 
I uploaded the doc in my repositories.
After I started build the webpages, I added a Gallery page to show more pictures.
Reason for that is to get more sense expressions. 
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/dcaab631-14c6-4152-ab8e-869727ee83b1)

<hr>

## Design

- Colours will give you a happy holiday feeling. I have 2 base colours, since there is some pictures that make the pages colourful.
  Background colour is a light ivory and I use a dark colour to make the text easily visible
  ![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/b3c7a8b1-21fc-4c36-b2bd-960a76d15b38)
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/710f392a-68c8-46e2-8adf-c8be0661cc7c)

- The font are choosen to get a casual design with a laidback and modern style.
Fonts are taken from Google Fonts
link: "https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Gluten:wght@100..900&display=swap"

- I have create an own davicon to use in head, with same font and colour as the pages.

## Future Features

**Social media links**
The thought is to upload a video on youtube, but it hasn´t been done yet.
<br>
When I start renting, Krokviken will have an own site on fb and instagram and the links will then go direct to those sites.
That can lead to more traffic and the object will get attention to more poople and more revenue for me.

**Gallery**
Upload more and updated pictures.

**Contact page**
1.I can also add a calender, where they can see the availible dates right away.
2. Next step is too book and get confirmed right away on the site.

<hr>
# Testing

## Manual Testing 
* I have tested with Safari on Ipad
* I have tested with Safari on Iphone
* I have tested all internal and external link
* I have checked the contact form and its fields/ submit
* I have tested with different browsers- Chrome, explorer, microsoft edge
* I have tested the responsive through the diffrent device sizes in Chrome inspections window
  
<hr>
# HTML validator
* I have checked the HTML codes through https://validator.w3.org

Index.html
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/e834cdba-4eb7-49ac-a0dc-78aa1690abef)
Gallery.html
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/eea6a882-849f-4a12-bb9d-6da2236f6229)
Location.html
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/1a1464ee-302b-49f2-b0fb-d11dad7f4cb5)
rental.html
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/1219b91b-081d-4cf9-bc09-850c31a55ca7)


## CSS Style
* I have checked the CSS style through   https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/fe281ea4-41c7-4875-bdcf-4baab3960264)

* I have checked the resposive through responsivedesignchecker.com


## Lighthouse
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/15a37b0a-8208-4f06-885a-cfdd75260863)

## Testing Responsive
- https://responsivedesignchecker.com/<
  ![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/15d3e39b-5734-4fbc-896d-607b0e604d71)

- https://ui.dev/amiresponsive
![image](https://github.com/Christina5P/rent-a-house/assets/160019695/821d6587-00b3-42f6-9d54-a70a9404fe0c)

<hr>

## Bugs
Through testing I found bugs that are resolves:
- Uploaded new Photo with smaller sizes
- The deployed site didn´t find links to img. I resolved it through tutorlesson of how to point at right map

<hr>

## Source references

The sources I have used in the project is:
- www.w3schools.com -More information about CSS styling Images and CSS codes
- Google map - link to my map
- Google Fonts - Find the font to use
- https://www.color-hex.com - tT find colours
-https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uu0lOX6Ot3s - more tips to create image gallery and lesson of create an own 404 error page
-https://pixlr.com/se/express/ - to change picture to webformat
- Pictures- It is private pictures uploaded
- Header background is from https://pixabay.com/
- Inspiration of codes are taken from "love Running" project (CI tutoring)
- https://fontawesome.com/ - icons to the social media in the footer and icon in head
- Tutor assistance -teach how to point link to right map in workspace
- Mentor assistance - tip to the project for nicer look (as without to much space on the page, icon and links)

## Acknowledgments
I will say thank you to a few people, who helped me proceed my P1 :
- My mentor Gareth
- My student fellow Josefin YoshidaDahlqvist, who has supported me through the project
- My studentfellows on slack with quick respons of all my questions
- Kristyna, who has a good pep attitude and helpful in a cleary way
- My studentfellow Jan, who gave me feedback
  
## Mentions
Under the project I get the understanding how yo use commit messages and explain better than i have done in the project.
I getting more structur instead of commit for safetys sake and maybe it doesn´t have any valuable information.
